 It begins the moment that complacency takes over and it becomesunreasonable to be emotionally, mentally, or physically invested in the world that exists beyond the mall doors.

Step 1: Exterminate every single living teenager in the world (for maximum efficiency, substitute the word world with universe).Step 2: Put a stop to female fertility, ending the problem of babies (thus in turn also ending the problem ofTeenagers).Step 3: Clone intelligent, healthy adults, thereby continuing the human race ad infinitum at our evolutionary peak and putting an end to the most dangerous threat in mankinds history.

Granted, I am not (technically) a doctor, so my understanding of the cloning process is limited to what Ive read on imascientist.com. But in laymans terms, in order to clone someone all that you need is a Genetic Replicator, a Willing Test Subject, and a little dash of Imagination. 

Once in a while, everything in the world changes at once. This is one of those times.

I hate writing. I dont mean writing as in the verb form of to write, or the specific act of putting words to paper (or to screen, as it is these days). I mean the science that its become, the colour-by-numbers formula that were told, both by teachers and critics, is necessary to create a worthwhile composition. Well, Im not buying it. I consistently hear, day in and day out, thatstructureis necessary; that theres a specificframework to follow in order to have an acceptably paced story; that I need to followthese rules and takethese steps in order to succeed; and that disobeying the guidelines can (and will) only result in catastrophe.


Your main character must be sympathetic. If theyre not nice, pile on someundeserved misfortune.

The characters desire must be clear, compelling, and urgent.Not to seem rude, and I realize that someone actually paid a professional writer a truckload of money for this advice, but I find these utterly stupid, invalid suggestions.

In the stories that I enjoy most, the characters motivations are rarely, if ever at all, explained in perfect, pristine detail throughout. I find itleagues more interesting and engaging when the characters actions or motivations are morally ambiguous, and while itmight (might being the operative word, since it isnt a requirement even) seem like theres a quintessential cookie-cutter Good Guy and Evil Guy, their agendas are both shrouded in shades of grey. This sort of mindset goes against everything that the writer of these storybook-protocols stands for.

While we're reading and critiquing other peoples manuscripts in the Creative Writing class that Im taking (taught by authorJody Gehrman), a recurring theme that I notice being brought up by class members is explanation. The theory that Ive established is this: simple-minded people need every aspect of a story interpreted for them, each nook and cranny explored and dissected and given clear reason. 