I cant, she croakedHis hand was on her right breast now, squeezing it hard through the blouse, and she could hear him breathing deeply through the nose. This quote doubles for discrimination because Mariam isnt listened to. Even though she protests against Rasheeds advances, he ignores her and doesnt care. He just keeps going, showing that he has no value for a womans opinion.
	They had Eid visitors at the house. They were all men, friends of Rasheeds. When a knock came, Mariam knew to go upstairs to her room and close the door. She stayed there, as the men sipped tea downstairs with Rasheed, smoked, chatted. Rasheed had told Mariam that she was not to come down until the visitors had left. Mariam isnt even allowed to be in the presence of house guests when they come over. Its simply because shes a female and Rasheed wants to limit her.

	One day soon, Mariam decided, she would tell Jalil these things. And when he heard, when he saw how much she missed him when he was gone, he would surely take her with him. He would bring her to Herat, to live in his house, just like his other children. Mariam is dreaming the way a child does. Children are always beacons of hope and dreams  that things can get better. When Mariam makes plans to go and see Jalil and be accepted by him, shes filling the reader with hope for a better future for her too.
	And she felt for the first time a kinship with her husband. She told herself that they would make good companions after all. Mariam is seeing things in a positive light, even though she just found porn and a gun in Rasheeds dresser. She feels like theyll be able to get along well and this shows a great amount of hope.
	Im going to be a mother, she said. Then she was laughing to herself, and saying it over and over, relishing the words. When Mariam thought of this baby, her heart swelled inside of her. It swelled and swelled until all the loss, all the grief, all the loneliness and self-abasement of her life washed away. This was why God had brought her here, all the way across the country. She knew this now.Mariam is giddy with the knowledge of her baby. Shes getting incredibly excited about being a mother. She thinks about her life and decides that child-bearing is her purpose. This shows hope because shes found a very special meaning to her life. 
	Hes going to ask for my hand, Laila! Maybe as early as this summer. Can you believe it? I swear I cant stop thinking about him. Giti finds a boy that she has a huge crush on and he decides that he wants to marry her. 